From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and the
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number two
56. Recorded live Wednesday, March 2nd, 2011.
Support for Hanselman. This is
provided by Telerik rad controls,
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Elijah Manor and Dave ward
about taking your JavaScript knowledge
to the next level. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm here
on campus at Microsoft. And
this is a very special
show. Why do you ask
it's because it's show number
256 bits of Hanselman. It's
it is eight pits of
Hanselman, and this is a
very special show. It is
our round number show show
200 went by without even
a thought, but a show
two 56 will not go
unrecognized and here Dave ward
with your wonderful radio voice.
Thank you sir. For joining
me. I happy to be
here. And we've also got
the man who has more
Twitter followers than Scott goo,
Elijah Manor. How are you,
sir? I'm doing well. You
have, you have too many
Twitter followers. How many you
have now it's close to
31,000. That's a problem. I'm
taking you down. My friend,
we are, we just actually
came out of some sessions
at the MVP summit. We've
been talking about JavaScript has
been a lot of JavaScript
discussion, and I want to
come at this with the
direction of a person who
kind of, I know JavaScript,
but I don't know, JavaScript.
Like I understand alert. I
understand on click. I understand
JavaScript is a piece of
glue that allows me to
hook up some actions to
my markup, but I don't
really think that I, as
a professional engineer have really
accepted JavaScript as its own
language. I don't give it
the respect that it needs.
And then I also have
a tendency to tweet kind
of smart ass things about
JavaScript. Like no one really
writes JavaScript anymore. They only
write jQuery. And I said
to myself, here are two
guys who respect the language
and care about the language
and you would help me
develop my sense of smell.
So, I mean, do I
have my head wrong? Or
do you think that it's
true that there are a
whole cast of programmers out
there that kind of know
JavaScript, but haven't really accepted
it into their life. They
don't know the good news
about JavaScript. Yeah, I think,
I think you have a
right. I think most of
the developers that I come
across and, and, you know,
looking at blogs on the
internet, it seems a lot
of people know how to
just do all that basic
stuff. And jQuery has really
made the language a lot
more popular and accessible. And
mainly because it's made working
with the Dom easier, you
don't have to worry as
many of the cross-browser issues,
which has become popular. But
the more That you write
jQuery, you're going to run
into problems if you don't
really know JavaScript well. And
which kind of led me
to, I'm actually gonna speak
at mics about this topic
because I see especially well,
C sharp developers. Cause that's
what the people that I
know seem to make the
same common mistakes because they,
they program Java script as
if it were C sharp.
And there are actually many
differences. Java script is probably
more akin to F sharp
and cause its functional nature.
And it is dynamic as
well, which is slightly different.
But if you don't understand
those things, you can run
into a lot of problems
and just, you know, the
scope is different. So if
you have an F block,
one C sharp, you know,
between the curly places, you're
like, Oh, if a variable
is in there, it's stays
in there. But in JavaScript
it's not. And so you
could run it a lot
of problems and four loops
are a little bit different.
And anyway, so I came
up with this talk because
I was doing a front
end architecture review for a
client and they were making
all the same mistakes that
I made initially. And then
I've slowly learned over time,
just studying Douglas Crockford and
reading his book. And so
I really think, unless you're
doing something very trivial, which
is usually the demos that
you see, people usually pick
that up and just they'll
write a really complicated app,
but use those simple techniques
and, and your code becomes
kind of unmaintainable and tightly
coupled. And there's actually a
lot of nice JavaScript patterns
you can pick up to
really split that out. Do
you agree with that day?
The idea that I see
curly braces and I go,
Oh, I know curly brace
language. I'll write this other
curly brace language in the
same way. Yeah. I had
two points. Exactly. They were
just right at a, it's
so easy to try to
write C-sharp in JavaScript, you
know, going too far toward
the object oriented paradigm instead
of embracing either, you know,
none of it, you don't
have to necessarily have objects.
You can just use namespace
objects to hold your code
or, you know, doing the
really complex objects where you
end up having more plumbing
code than actual code that
is running your site. I
think that's a big problem.
And also not embracing the
fact that it's a dynamic
language. Cause it really is
a beautiful thing when you're
working with the UI because
that's where a aesthetic language
like you C sharp is
actually sort of messy. That's
interesting that, that at first
aspect, let's talk about that.
The idea that JavaScript is
really a truly dynamic dynamic
language. We, we hear people
complaining about lack of IntelliSense
in JavaScript and C sharp
programmers and BB programmers say,
well, I don't really like
JavaScript because I feel like
I'm out there without a
net and you really are,
but it's not necessarily a
deficiency of the tools. Sometimes
it's, it's honestly the JavaScript
stuff that's going on inside
of visual studio is pretty
amazing. It's actually not a
deficiency, but a strength of
the language that you just
don't know until you run
it, what's going to happen.
Yeah, that's true. You know,
I sort of Liken it
to regular expressions. You know,
every time that you need
a red X for something,
you have to go back
out and learn the syntax.
It's one of those things
that you use just infrequently
enough that, you know, it
can do what you want.
You just don't know how
to do it. And I
think the JavaScript is the
same way for a lot
of people who have been,
you know, maybe copy pasting
some snippets from a dynamic
drive or something like that,
or, or using the things
that frameworks will generate like
asp.net and just enough to,
you know, be dangerous, but
not necessarily be able to
sit down and write some
JavaScript from scratch. And that's
that sort of tipping point
where you really have to
embrace it, embrace the language,
embrace the strengths of it.
And I think that that's
probably because people use it
just infrequently enough to remember
the pain points. They never
get past the tipping point
where they start to see
the true benefits of using
it. Yeah. I want to
understand how I can go
from a beginner to a
kind of an apprentice and
work my way up to
kind of a journeyman, because
I was looking at some
code that Steve Sanderson wrote
that we demonstrated during the
cemeteries on knockout JS. And
I had Steve on the
show a couple of weeks
ago and he had built
an entire view model. And
that, again, this will just
belie my own ignorance, but
he, it had methods and
properties and they were interacting
between each other. It was
really quite a beautiful thing.
And I looked at it
and could read it, but
couldn't visualize a world where
I could write that myself.
You know what I'm saying?
So I think you're right.
That I'm still at that
basic level where I say,
Oh, they've got four loops,
I've got four loops. They've
got switched statements. I've got
switched statements. But, but how
to make that transition, I
mean the basic structure about
like, what does a good
JavaScript object look like? What
kind of behavior should it
have? And then you brought
up the issue of namespace
scoping. It's a little bit
overwhelming. Yeah. I think a
lot of the C sharp
developers don't realize that, you
know, the fact that they
can namespace and she's sharp
is a good thing. But
when they go to write
JavaScript, everything's on the global
object, like they just use
function and a name and
then they go on and
they don't realize actually that's
a bad thing because especially
in browsers like Chrome and
stuff, it all the extensions
that you install, your functions
could conceivably conflict with their
code as well. Really. So
those are all living in
the same place. If you
actually open up the debugger
or the, you know, to
look at your code and
select all the scripts because
you want to debug your
script. Well, among that script
is like all the extension
scripts as well. So how
does it work at all?
I mean, it makes me
wonder how well I've, I've
run into some extensions that
it broke a page because
they were conflicting and what
they were using. And so
that's really the, one of
the importance of using namespace,
spacing your stuff. And there's
some simple patterns, actually, there's
several ways to do it.
But Douglas Crockford in his
book JavaScript the good parts
really outlined several techniques that
you could, you could have
an object with public and
private properties, public and private
methods, just kind of like
you're used to in C
sharp. And, but most people
don't realize that. And by
doing so, you're protecting the
global namespace. So you're not
going to conflict with all
these other libraries. So yeah,
if, if you don't like
to read, which sometimes it's
hard to read, there's a
great, he did the same
content, basically in a video
video series on, on Yahoo.
You can actually go there
and, and watch it, but
he outlines a lot of
these techniques that most developers
don't know Also brought up
a good point there in
terms of, you know, there
are, there are a lot
of different ways to create
objects and, and set up,
you know, your, your inheritance,
a prototype and things like
that in JavaScript. But something,
I think probably because most
of the sample code you're
going to see if you
look at something that's that
we get an ASP dot
that often is a framework.
It's, it's something that is
meant to be very, very
generic that, that works in
every case. You're going to
see a little bit more
architecture than you probably need
for your website. You know,
I think that's something that
I see an awful and,
and it adds to the
complexity, going back to what
you said about, you know,
if I'm just starting, you
know, how much do I
really have to learn? And
if you add all this
plumbing on top of the
core concepts, it really makes
it harder to approach. And
then you bring up a
really interesting point that kind
of resonates with me that
as a, as a purported
educator, I'm going to try
to put out samples there
and encourage people to put
out samples. But if that
sample says, include these nine
files, and by the way,
beyond JavaScript itself as a
language, you need to understand
these two other frameworks, then
that can be really overwhelming.
But then at the same
time, if I put out
a sample, inevitably, something is
going to be copy pasted
directly from that sample. And
it was a naive sample.
And no matter how many
times you put things in
bold and red on the
sample, that this is a
naive sample, do not copy
paste. It, it will end
up in production somewhere that's.
So it feels like there's
a gap and that gap
is basic working knowledge of
JavaScript and then creating object
models and hierarchies and namespaces
should I, what should I
be doing? Should I be
reading books or should I
be reading source code? I
think reading source code is
a really good idea. Like
I absolutely agree with the
Crockfords the JavaScript, the good
parts. It's a really concise
book, you know, you can
read it very quickly. I
think it's just a hundred
pages or so. And that,
that is a good primer.
I don't know if I
would recommend starting with that
first because it assumes a
little bit of knowledge, but
absolutely reading code. You know,
I know that you're a
proponent of that and that
that's, that's definitely one of
the best ways. And especially
JavaScript is, is always out
there. You know, you can
view source on so many
websites. You, how did they
do this, but you source
and now, you know, or
look at it in something
like fireball, Just to piggyback
on that. Paul Irish, she's
one of the jQuery team
members. He has two videos.
The first one was called
10 things. I learned from
reading the jQuery source. And
he actually dives into some
really complicated, but approachable things.
It's a really great video.
And then he, it was
so popular. I mean, tons
of people watched it that
he did it out of
the one, like 11 more
things he learned from the
jQuery source. And well, that's
a lot of, so, but
I highly recommend those because
some of those patterns, you
know, I learned from watching
him and then it encouraged
myself to look at Jake
Corey source more closely. And
I'm just picking up a
lot of, a lot of
the techniques that modern JavaScript
uses, because you'll see lots
of code snippets on the
web, like old ways to
do things that's interesting right
there, modern JavaScript, because it's
clear that JavaScript is a
language can no longer be
avoided with old style web
forms, 2002, 2003. And then
the original Ajax tool kit
stuff. The idea was abstract
away, HTML, abstract away, JavaScript
and jQuery embraces JavaScript, but
abstracts away, browser inconsistencies. But
then you just said kind
of a hot button issue
for me, which is modern
JavaScript. How do I know
when I'm reading some code,
if it's modern or not
modern. And does that mean
modern inform or does that
mean that only certain browsers
understand it or only certain
JavaScript, you know, interpreters or
JavaScript compilers can understand that?
I mean, did the language
change or did the techniques
change? It's more of the
techniques from my perspective, when
I say modern JavaScript, I'm
more talking about not embedding
code in, in your HTML
elements. Like, you know, having
that separation a concern where
your markup is your markup,
and then you add to
that in your JavaScript. And
so you, you know, attach
to things. And that way,
if, if, you know, just
having a clean separation just
helps things out. And another
obvious thing to see if
it's old, as you know,
is it, is it namespace
or not? You know, just
like we talked about before,
what does that mean? Like
give me an example, a
concrete example of namespace or
not are all your functions,
you know, just at the
root in your, in your
file, is it like, I
would say function, hanselman.cool. And
that's namespace versus just a
cool function. And so instead
of saying like function space,
you know, Hanselman's function, open
print, closed print, instead of
doing something like that, like
that you would first create
an object and then you
would define the, the method
off of the object. I
see. And so that way
you could define multiple methods,
but you attach them to
your object. So when you
say the root, that scope,
that's an object, the window
scoped, like if you just
open up the text editor
and just start typing immediately,
that will be attached to
the window. I see. So
if you don't actually attach
it to something, it's going
to be attached to the
window and that's where the
collisions can happen. So those
are just some techniques that
it's just like, Oh, I
probably shouldn't do it that
way. There's a better way.
So there's nothing in the
language to prevent me from
doing that, but that is
an expected convention. It's bad
to not do it that
way. Yeah. I think it's
probably tough to quantify exactly
what is modern, what isn't,
you know, it's pretty subjective
that that is absolutely a
one thing that the name
spacing, because I think a
lot of people don't realize
that if you just type
a variable name or type
of function name that is
window dot, that variable and
window, not that function and
what you were talking about
in terms of the, the
separation of concerns, that's something
you bug me On a
regular basis. Dave, I'm always
I'll make a JavaScript file,
but then I'll put two
or three functions in my
markup and you're like, stop
doing that. Yeah, yeah. That
that's called unobtrusive JavaScript. The
idea that you, we can
use event handlers that we
wire up, you know, completely
separate from the, the, you
know, the HTML that markup
the concept behind unintrusive JavaScript
is that you completely separate
the markup and functionality that
you attach to it. So
instead of, you know, in
the past, you've seen window
onload and they'll put it
right there in the right.
That's how I would do
it. And I did it
for years, window on load
button on click and all
that. Sure. And we all
have, but, and the reason,
the reason that we did
that is because the mechanism
for attaching those event handlers,
that is part of the
Dom, that's not part of
the language itself, Dom the
document object model. Yes. And
until recently we didn't have
a good abstraction to do
that cleanly, you know, you
know how to do it
in jQuery. It's very, very
simple to add those handlers,
but before it's a quite
a bit of code to
do it completely unobtrusively. So
it just, it made sense
to do it in line.
That's why asp.net did it
in line originally. And that
was fun back then. Hi,
this is Scott coming to
you from another place in
time. Are you using agile
practices to manage your software
development? There's lots of tools
in the market that manage
the steps of a project,
but most of them focus
on individual roles, get ready
for a solution that caters
for the success of the
whole team. Guys at Tellerik
introduced team pulse. It's an
agile project management tool. That'll
help you gather ideas, estimate
plan, track progress in a
common workspace. Finally, companies, regardless
of their size can use
a lightweight and convenient tool
that makes all the stakeholders
work as a United team.
Even if they're in different
countries by combining intuitive user
interface and the power server
light team poles removes the
roadblocks that you typically face
and applying agile in an
effective manner, no more lost
data, no disparate systems, no
lack of critical analytics regarding
the health philosophy project. See
if yourself get a free
copy for five users in
one project at tellerik.com/team pulse.
And please do thank tolerance
for supporting Hansel minutes on
their Facebook fan page, facebook.com/t
L E R I K
teller. We do appreciate it.
They wouldn't be a handsome
minutes if there wasn't, Tellerik
helping us. So if I'm
building an application and I've
got a lot of JavaScript
in my markup now, I
think probably a lot of
the listeners do. And if
I move that out, am
I going to, I mean,
I'm going to end up
with hundreds of JavaScript files
and am I in my
hooking up my, my events
based on the ID of
buttons, or am I trying
to make things much more
generic and say, well, this
is a button of this
class. I mean, how do
I have that separation of
concerns without making a custom
JavaScript file for every page?
Well, I think that you'll
find a lot of times
this stuff is generic enough
that you can either find
plugins that are already made
or abstract your stuff out
into plugins, because often you,
how many times have you
written a, an enclave for
every row of a table
cell or a table, and
you'll have, you know, a
hundred on clicks on a
page or something like that.
And with the newer techniques
that you use with JavaScript
or the other libraries, you
can attach one handler to
the table. And as the
event comes up to that
handler, you can say, well,
which you know, which row
is clicked and grab its
ID or some bit of
text out of the table
or something like that. And
then, and work based on
that. So you didn't, you
turned out that you turned
a hundred of those handlers
into one. So you actually
had a lot of gain
in efficiency. They're not, you
know, not a loss And
if I've got an application
like it has order details,
but it only has one
order details page. I might
have some framework JavaScript that
everyone included maybe at the
master page level, and then
I might have page specific
JavaScript just for that order
details page. Sure. And especially
now with the, how many
script leaders we have that
are becoming more mature. And
I know Boris is working
on different JS, A lot
of information they're compressed in
a small area, you said
script loaders. And he tells
us what that is. And
who's Boris. Right. Okay. Boris
is on the asp.net team.
And, and he's, he's the
developer that actually did most
of the work on the
templates and the data linking
and the globalization plugins. Yeah.
It'd been Microsoft JavaScript, Dave,
there was Dave Reed and
then Boris, where it was
more gotten involved and now
Damien's helping out. There's a
lot of people here and
Dave and both Dave and
Elijah are here. Our, our,
you know, JavaScript your MVPs,
but you could probably compete
JavaScript, MVPs as well as
ESPN and MVPs. So you
know, these guys on a
first name basis and you've
worked with them and then
because a lot of this
new work and JavaScript is
being done out in the
open, you can interact with
Boris as well, just by
going and looking at his
kid hub page, which is
where he does most of
his work. Yeah. He wants
that. He wants that interaction
with everyone Quite done the
way it used to be,
where we just, you know,
check things into TFS and
then 18 months from now,
you find out what Boris
is working on. You can
ask you follow us, follow
Boris on, on GitHub. So
that was one thing. And
then the script loader you
were saying that the script
loaders make life easier when
we have lots of different
scripts, what does the script
loader and why do I
care? I think maybe the
life span over the past
10 years of, of how
we include these scripts. You
know, it's sort of gone
from, you know, we started
out with just, just so
little script that it was
embedded in the page. And
then we realized, Hey, you
know, we're sort of duplicating
ourselves and this is messy.
So we move it out
into a single script file.
And then we start finding,
you know, dozens of scripts
that we want on the
page and, and things like
the asp.net Ajax library fill
sort of to that problem,
to where each control would
include a separate JavaScript file.
And then we realized, well,
this, the HTTP connections for
each one, often the overheads
and make that connection takes
more time and resources then
downloading the entire file itself.
So we realized we have
to do something about that.
And, and now probably most
anyone that's working with clients
and stuff now knows you
should combine and compress your
JavaScript down into as few
files as possible, which is
pretty easy these days. There's
a lot of tools for
it. Well, these days you
can actually take advantage of
the way that newer browsers
work working by newer. I
mean, like I ain't even
, you know, this isn't
a really cutting edge thing
to actually asynchronously load the,
the scripts in the background.
So at the very top
of the page, you say,
Hey, would you pull these
scripts in, but don't block
the rest of the page.
Don't impact my performance very
much so that then you
can move back toward a
more modular approach. So you
don't have to have that
duplicated JavaScript code included on
every, every page in order
to get a single combined
file. And so now probably
going forward, what you'll see
is, like you said earlier,
you know, there'll be a
single base file is probably
necessary on every single page
for common functionality, but then
it's not very costly to
have pages, just use a
script floater to, to quickly
pull in a little file
that has page specific functionality.
So, you know, you can
really make it more modular.
It makes it easier to
work on it, maintain it
too. I like that. Yeah.
And just to follow up
with that, another good thing
about most of these libraries,
like the Fergus and lab
JS and required us, there's
lots of them, but not
only can you tell it
to do it asynchronously, but
sometimes there's a specific order
that has to be in.
And, and most of them
you can actually say, okay,
you know, for these to
download them asynchronously, but only,
but execute them in order.
And, but you could choose
which ones you want, which
is great because more and
more apps are becoming single
page apps. Like, you know,
just because Ajax and it's
more responsive. And so instead
of refreshing and going somewhere
else, you need, you need
all these tools eventually, but
some of them you might
need immediately, like Dave was
saying, so having the combination
of specifying the order is
also good. And some of
them, you might, I don't
care. You know, just, it
could be the last one
then that's fine because I
won't need it. Maybe till
I'm using jQuery templates later
on in the app. No,
you know, within JavaScript, there's
all these different plugins. And
then within jQuery, there's just
a whole community of plugins.
And I think it's funny.
I mean, when people complain
about Microsoft and our fragmentation
and our lack of documentation,
but when you start getting
into the JavaScript world, it's
just, everyone's got an opinion
and everyone's got a plug
in, where do I start?
I mean, you're rattling off.
Like you said, differ JS.
And we heard about the
modernizer library before, but by
the time a book comes
out and the tree's been
chopped down, the dead tree
has been printed and shipped
to my house. Something new
has come out. Where do
you go to, to know
that I should use the
modernizer and I should use
differ JS or, or I
should use the HX script
loader, et cetera, et cetera.
Yeah. That's, that's actually a
big problem. And I get
that question a lot and
you know, there is a
repository on jQuery, you know,
they could go to plugins,
but it's really old. And
the team's looking to revamp
it a lot and to
have a section like these
are recommended by the team,
right? Here's ones that support
the jQuery theme roller, which
allows you to switch out
the colors really easily and
make it look nice. And
then, you know, possibly maybe
have a rating that's from
the community. But as of
now, it's, you know, what
I do is I first
go to jQuery UI, cause
they have a lot of
quality widgets that are highly
tested unit tests. And that,
that's the thing I look
for. If I look for
a plugin, are there unit
tests behind it? Another thing
is, does it support the
theme roller? Because I usually
like all my stuff to
have a similar look and
feel. And when I switched
it out, theme, theme, roller
theme, roller L L E
R, that's something that is
a standard way to skin
your visual widget as a
set of CSS classes that
jQuery UI uses behind the
scenes. And if you can
inform to those, you could
style your own widgets. And
then another thing, I just
take a look at it,
Some of the key figures
and then jQuery Community, and
you know, what are they
developing? What are they using
in their apps? And, but
the, the story is kind
of difficult right now, but
that's kind of the flow
I do. And if I
don't find what I want,
I'll just write my own,
but I try to follow
those standards, make it the
mobile, use the jQuery UI
widget factory, which is what
the jQuery UI uses behind
the scenes. It's an easy
way, easy framework to create
widgets in, in a good
using best practices. So that's
kind of the flow. What
do you think Dave? Well,
I want to say though,
that that's works for jQuery
and UI widgets and stuff,
but what about the general
stuff outside of the jQuery
community? How do I know?
I mean, the modernizer that
I keep hearing about is
not part of jQuery and
the script loaders are not
necessarily part of Jake. Well,
one thing I was going
to say, going back to
earlier, you were talking about
how you can learn JavaScript
by view source. Basically, even
though a lot of sites
are, you know, minifying their
jobs, pretend it's hard to
understand what it is. If
you see something on a
site that you like and
you right. Click and inspect
the element, and there's a
good chance that you're going
to see the name of
whatever plugin they're using. I've
found some really great stuff
that like Elijah said, and
it was hard to find
another repository and places like
that in terms of finding
just general JavaScript. I think
I have to agree with
Elijah that, you know, you
follow the people in the
community, you look at the
people on GitHub that are
doing interesting JavaScript things and
follow them. See what kind
of projects they're working on.
The in terms of just
raw JavaScript that it really
is it's explosive right now,
how much work is going
on just the time, The
fact that there's an explosion
of JavaScript and innovation and
that space is that kind
of why it's so hard
to follow. I mean, there's
no Bible that's come out
that says, this is what
you need to know because
it'll be different next year,
but you really took to
be an effective JavaScript program
and you really need to
be an effective community member.
Wouldn't you agree? Or just,
you know, follow a few
of the community members? Well,
I mean the Forrester research
did this thing a while
back about the different kinds
of people in the community.
You've got critics, contributors, consumers,
just because you're not sitting
in a room with a
bunch of fools doing a
podcast. Like we are, it
doesn't mean that you're not
a member of the community,
right? I mean, a consumer
is a proper member of
community, but you can't just
be insulated in your, in
your basement trying to learn
JavaScript on your own because
there's just so much innovation
going on in this space.
Yeah. A lot of the
innovation has seemed to be
to come from the HTML
five and CSS, three things
that are coming out and,
and like what's a good
way. Cause a lot of
developers want to do the
new stuff. And so what's
a good way that you
could use the new stuff,
but still have a way
to support old browsers. Cause
you know, you're depending on
your client, they may or
may not be able to
only say Chrome 11, you
know, or whatever, or I
nine. And, and so the
modernizer was made to address
that because a technique, a
lot of JavaScript libraries used
to use is to look
at the user agent, you
know, what browser am I
on? What version, what features
is it known to support?
And that's very problematic because
another one will come out
and you have all these
conflicts. And so jQuery several
releases ago, basically doesn't do
most of those checks. They
actually do feature detection, you
know, does this browser let
me do XYZ? And they
test for that. And if
it does, it'll go through
one branch of code. That's
more optimal if it doesn't
it'll have it, if it
doesn't support this nice feature,
then there's some other code
that's less optimal, but still
gets the job done. And
that's how it does a
lot of it's. That's why
it does so well. And
so the modernizer was filling
a similar gap, but looking
at the HTML five features
like, okay, does, does this
browser support the placeholder attribute,
which is, you know, it's
kinda like a watermark on
the text box and if
it doesn't, then it basically
tells you if it does
or doesn't. And if it
doesn't, then you could provide
some polyfill or, or some
mechanism to simulate that like
maybe get a jQuery plugin
that does that. And so
modernizer allows, it was written
to fill that need of,
I want to code really
nice looking stuff first and
if not do something else,
That's interesting. What is the,
the modernizer sounds like in
the U S we call
putty or spackle. It's like,
you've got a wall with
a bunch of cracks and
you want to smooth it
out. You just puddy over
it kind of like, you
know, re spackle this wall.
I thought that jQuery was
some of that as well.
jQuery kind of spackles over
a lot of browser incompatibilities.
How are those two libraries
related? Well, it's funny you
say that because the, you
heard Elijah just called the,
some of the workarounds polyfills
I guess in the youth,
I guess that is some
sort of, yeah, Holly polyfill
was a technical term and
also a kind of spackle
that you can clean up
quick cracks in your wall.
But in terms of the
differences, I think that it's
just simply that jQuery only
really abstracts away things like
Dom manipulation and Ajax, and
it has a few utility
methods, but it really doesn't
try to get into the
internals of fixing JavaScript too
much. Whereas things like modernizer,
they're more focused on browser
features, things that are just
absolutely missing, not things that
you can smooth over at
all, but that you have
to realize that, you know,
can this thing do it
at all or not Cracks
in the wall, but literally
holes. I don't support geolocation.
How are you gonna make
make that happen for
sure. So an example might
be, if your browser doesn't
have geolocation, I still call
the same API APIs, except
you're going to go And
look me up by my
IP address. So close enough.
Yeah. And there, the great
thing is once you pair
modernizer with some of these
polyfills are out there, a
lot of these new features
like local storage and geolocation,
like you mentioned, there are
libraries that allow the polyfill
technically a polyfill is a
library that it lets you
program against the same API
that is coming Jason to
dot JS is another one
that probably a lot of
people know of so that
when you use the code,
your code is actually standards
code. And if the compatibility
layer is necessary, then it's
used and you use the
less efficient maybe API call,
like you mentioned. And then
automatically, if that code is
running in a newer browser,
then it's just going to
go ahead and use the
standards. And so that's, that's
where modernizer differs because jQuery
is going to give you
standard functionality, no matter what
you can count on everything
that jQuery does, it will
do in every browser. Whereas
this is just giving you
something like modernizers just giving
you the ability to sort
of make some decisions on
how to implement newer stuff.
Cool. All right. So I
need to go check out
Douglas Crockfords JavaScript. The good
parts. Paul Irish is a
blog post about things that
he learned. Two blog posts.
Was it nine things and
11 things and learned about
looking at the jQuery stores.
I'd recommend going to the
get hub for the modernizer
project. He has a Wiki
page there. It has a
long list. It's really, really
interesting stuff. Fantastic. And of
course, follow Elijah. He tweets
tons of great information about
you. You go and you
search Twitter for jQuery or,
and, or JavaScript. You will
very likely find that both
of you guys several thousand
times a day, at least.
Alright. Well, I really appreciate
you taking the time to
chat with me today. It
was fun. This has been
another episode of Hansel minutes
and I'll see you again
next week.